SPEAKER 0
Afternoon everyone. Just. Trying to get myself set up here, oh what is this like, honestly. Why? No, I don't want to do that. Um, OK. Let's do that. It There we go. Alright, so, um. Welcome to week 4. Let's zoom in a little bit. So. Yes. As I said, this week we're gonna be looking at. Um, Mostly these three things, linear regression, logistic regression, and um polynomial regression. Lots of regression. Um, but we're kind of doing some important stuff under the hood as well, we're kind of developing a little bit of theory, developing a little bit of notation, um, so, hopefully, this stuff comes in handy later on as well. Alright? Um, cool, we will, we will have some kind of, Echo poll thing going shortly, let's close that. Um. Let's do that, alright. OK, Echo poll will be in a little bit, alright? Um, Super. And um, I kind of I updated my lecture notes a little bit, um. Hopefully, um, I was kind of thinking this could be really annoying for somebody who already printed the whole thing out, or whatever, but, but I thought, well, it will help things in this room, in this two hours, so I should try and do it. Um, mostly just put some pictures and things in here. Um, so I still want to, I wanna kind of go through my notes today, mostly, I don't really have any MATLAB demos today, so I'm not even in MATLAB. Um, but we'll also look at the book over here, because we might wanna see some of the detail in the book as we go. Alright? So there somewhere. Super. And hopefully it fits on the page. Alright, and as usual, there'll be Ed. Discussion here, so if we don't get time to answer all your questions, put something here, and then um Kai might answer or I might answer, and, and if I miss something important like, Come and shout at me or something, OK, alright. Good, OK. No. Alright, so let's talk about this stuff, OK? It's the, the, the heading is, is this basic parametric models. Um, I'm not sure that this term parametric is a very useful term. You hear people talking about parametric machine learning. Non-parametric, um, semi-parametric, it doesn't really, mm, doesn't do a lot for us, but you'll see why in a second, OK? So, we're gonna talk about 3 techniques and develop a little bit of theory under the hood as we go. OK. It's a little bit bubbly in here today, there's, it's a bit noisy, which is I like I kind of like you chatting, but just, Because we've got so many people that can easily do the snowball thing and then it's a bit distracting, OK, so. Let's try and Let's try and focus on this a little bit. Alright, so let's start with linear regression, and I, you know, I feel like, I'm very confident that everybody in this room has seen, at some point, the idea of at least the equation for a straight line, right, and probably also, Um, using the equation for a straight line to perhaps model some data or, or fit some data, OK? So I, I will kind of assume that, uh, this is not super completely new, um, but maybe we have a little bit of a different perspective on it in machine learning. I suppose the main thing to think about is, we're always thinking about um techniques that are high dimensional. OK, so again we draw the pictures. We draw the pictures like that in a, in a low D space, a 1D space, but actually we, we want to think about how you can fit data, which is, is multi-dimensional and potentially very high dimensional. We're only really thinking, thinking about predicting one output at the moment, so that would be the Y axis, you know, here we have a little linear regression model that can predict distance. Given speed, OK, so. The output is one dimensional, we just think about that, but the input here is one dimensional. But we want algorithms that can work for 10 dimensions, 100 dimensions, whatever. OK. Um, that makes the maths look a little bit different, if nothing else. Alright. So, yeah, so fundamentally, it's about, I would say, doing, fitting a line to some data. Or at least a linear function. And for this one Ah, well, the equation is, in general, is something like this, right? So Y equals. Ah, let's not use MX plus C, or whatever, let's use, let's use Greek letters. Um, Y equals the 0 plus theta 1 times x1 plus the 2 times x2, blah blah blah. Um So, you know, if you only have one X, then all of those terms disappear and it's just theta 0 plus theta 1 X1, and theta 0 is the, Displacement from the origin, right, the offset, and theta 1 is like the, um, coefficient on, on X1. Nothing new there, I guess, right? And for this particular line in this figure, it tells you what the coefficients are for, For this, this dataset, OK, some, some numbers, alright, fine. That's OK, I think. Um, so, you know, the key thing is, well, if I had some dataset. How do I fit the line to the data, right? How do I, um, learn or train my model? That's, that's sort of what we do in machine learning. OK, so you wanna fit this line somehow to this data in some sensible way. Alright, um. Well, the situation is like this. OK, we could have some data points, the black points there. We would have some model, and then a prediction for the model is, is going to be a point on the line. That's what the model predicts, right? You give it a test input, X, and it gives you a prediction for that X, Y hat. X, so the hat is like, this is a predicted value, whereas, Y1, Y2 and Y3, they are actual values of the data points from the training set. Yes. Makes sense. And Um You know, probably in most cases, we might have some data that is kind of modelled well by a straight line. I don't know, is that sort of, sort of a reasonable model for that data, but clearly, The the data does not lie perfectly on the line, right, so, we're, we're talking about a model that might be kind of useful for predicting the general trend of some data, but we're not really expecting, That we would get perfect predictions out of a model like this, or zero error, right, unless you have a really, pretty simple problem, um, you would expect that there's gonna be some error. OK, in fact, this, because of this, it, it sort of always gets baked into the model in in machine learning, when we do linear regression, that you might, um, you, you kind of assume that, um, you're not gonna be able to fit the data perfectly and therefore, it might be useful to have an assumption of additive noise. OK, and you'll see why this is a very convenient assumption. Ah, you'll, you'll see that soon, alright, but it's kind of just like saying, OK, we know, we know that the, um, let's assume that we have some data, and maybe even if it is coming from a linear function, but the observations of the data points we get, could be corrupted by noise. OK, so that's another way to think about it. Anyway, so epsilon is some assumed additive noise to, to the ah model. OK. So then if the situation is like this, you could say, alright, well these, these epsilons are the error. That means the difference between the actual value of Y at that particular X, versus the predicted value of Y. Yeah. Um Well then, if you wanna do machine learning, you want to fit this line to the data, that kind of, this suggests that the thing you would want to do would be to minimise these errors, right? Cause if all of those epsilons there were zero, I would be getting perfect prediction of the Y's from the X's. So it seems to make sense that fitting this model would involve minimising the error, as in the difference between the line and the observed whys. OK, in fact, what we end up doing. Um, and we'll talk more about why in a second. Very often, the thing that we minimise is the squared error. Um, so that's why they put some squares on this figure. OK, so like the error is that the difference between the, the why of the data point and the prediction, but if you had an error which was like the squared difference between the dot and the line, then that amount of error would be proportional to the area of this square. So they're sort of just like, it's an illustration, OK? Yeah, very good. Do the pictures make sense? Yeah. Anybody say no? OK, the pictures are good. I think it's good to look at the pictures first, and then to go back and have a little look at the um equations. OK, so, because the notation is important, right, I don't want, don't want people getting confused about the notation this week, because that means you're gonna suffer for many weeks to come. Um, OK, so the parameters are feeder. Theta's a vector full of parameters. The data, or the X's are, Um, for a single data point, in, in general, we would have this vector X. OK, where we have many uh P dimensional input. Alright, and a single output Y, so that's just one data point. Alright, we're trying to learn a model of this form, Y equals some function of X plus error. And in our case right now, this function is this one. So it's a linear model of. Um, of the P inputs, plus, An offset or a constant. So we, so our, So our line can go, like, be offset, right, if you had no theta naught, then your line would have to pass through the origin all the time. It seems a bit restrictive. Um, and the additive noise. Um, bom bom bom, yes. So with that kind of thing, we would be able to write out the models in this type of form if we wanted to, right, because why is this is the model, and that's just this vector of, Parameters theta multiplied by this vector of parameters, with all of the inputs, all of the X's, plus a one. OK, that one gets added into the vector, so that we really, so that we can write out this model, Nicely and neatly like that. OK, because if you put the one in there, that's, When you, you know, that's for the multiplication by feet to 0. So you get your theta naught in there, and there's a 1 next to it, but we, we don't write it down, OK? So, so linear regression, you can just write in vector sort of notation like that, which is a lot nicer than writing all this stuff. OK. Alright, so then, when we talk about predicting new points, it's usually X that, well, the notation is X. And then the model predictions have the little hat above them. That's fine. You had a test input, it would also be a vector. If you had P dimensions, that's fine. Feeder, hat would be the learned parameter values after training. Um, what else? Not much to know, that's got hats on everything because it's the predicted model. Train model Um Everybody OK? So I'm kind of grazing through this. If people are, are stuck on anything, then let's have a question or, or pop it on Ed for later. All right, so if you have, The situation like we had in the first picture. Like that, you wanna train a model to learn from this data. Well, we have a whole lot of data points in this picture. That will be N data points, so that means that you, your data is sort of stored in, well, capital X, this matrix. Where it's a little bit ugly, but it's capital X is just a matrix of all the data points you have stored as um row vectors. And then Y is just a vector of all the outputs. Um, and then. Um You know, if, uh, if you don't like the, the algebra, remember it's just numbers underneath all of this. So something like this, something like this, and we need deter we need to determine the feeder parameters. That's the equation Um OK, and so the idea is to minimise some kind of error function, or you could say a loss function. This is typically hasn't always been this way, but, but these days in machine learning, people would refer to a loss function as this function that measures the model's prediction to the observed data. Um, and you would also have a cost function. Um, which maybe the same thing, but not necessarily. We'll talk much more about this next week. OK. Um So This is a general expression for the. Training problem when we formulate it as an optimisation problem. So we'll we'll, we'll go over this in more detail in a couple of weeks' time, but the way to read this is kind of just to say, well, I, I'm after some theta, some parameters theta for my model, and I want those to be the parameters that minimise some function. And it general form, it's gonna be a function that looks like this. It's gonna have the sum over end because I have all of the data points, and I'm measuring something about how well I predict on my training set. So it's a sum like that, and then it's a sum over um something that measures the difference between the actual output, YI, that's the data, and the predicted output, which is the Y hat. OK, so it's gonna be some function that measures the difference. Between the predicted value and the true value, and the predicted value is a function which depends on the data. And the model parameters. That's what that notation is saying. Is that notation OK? Mhm. Alrighty. Well, then, like I said, The most common function that people use to do linear regression would be this squared loss, squared error loss, which is where we don't just look at the difference between Y hat and Y, we look at the squared difference between them. OK, and, and they use the term here, least squares, and probably some of you have come across least squares. I can't imagine that engineers get to 3rd year or 4th year and don't hear about least squares somewhere along the line, um, or, or, you know, it's gotta be around. There's a, hopefully. So That's a function which we can use. Clearly, if we minimise this function, well, if we got zero error, we'd be doing great, right, we'd be predicting perfectly. Um And I'm not gonna worry too much about the details of this, but roughly, quickly, what's going on here, they're just writing this down, substituting in the model in matrix vector notation, which is what we had from before. Um, OK, so then that becomes that. And then um people might remember from linear algebra that you can, um, you don't need an algorithm. To solve, to to iterate, to find the values of theatre hat, because, um, Yeah, this is a set of what they call normal equations, and basically if this guy's invertible, then you can compute the solution like this. OK, so this is, when, when we say that in machine learning that something has a closed form solution, we mean there's an expression like this, go away, AI assistant, I swear to God. Um. There's, there's a mathematical expression like this, which you can use to compute the answer. Alright, so that is the minimum of. The Loss function, the cost function, to find the parameters that best fit the line in the least square sense. OK. As long as you can invert that matrix, then you can just do that multiplication and you'll get your model parameters. So that's pretty nice. Alright Um, nothing, possibly nothing new here. You might have already seen something like this somewhere as well. Math 1051. I don't know, maybe. Um, but that's, that's kind of it, right? So then you get an algorithm which looks super simple. It just has, it just says use that, use that equation and, and get your result. Yep. What are some of the cases where it wouldn't? Cases where, where this would not be invertible. Hm Can anybody think of a, Case where that might not be invertible. So I think one case is where. You have. Um, let's see. So if I'm trying to fit a line. In with 1 X. Then, as long as you give me. As long as you give me 2 data points, I can do it. Because there's a unique. Line that passes through those two data points, and this will give me the solution that is that. Right. But if I only have one data point. In this space. Ah, well, you can just fit lots of lines through that data point, and they all get zero error. So there's not a unique solution to the, to the system of equations. I think that means. It's not invertible. But I would, off the top of my head, I don't remember what kind of Matrix mystery this leads to. Math wizards, now's your time to shine. Say something about positive semi-definites, or, or something like that. It's something to do with that, right? I don't really, I don't know cos I don't care that much, but I, I can definitely go and look it up if people are keen. But this is one situation, and the generalisation of this is, if you have, if we have an N-dimensional space. You should have at least N +1 points. To fit the linear model. If you have less than that, you'll have this underdetermined system, which does not have a unique solution, and you can't use that method to get the model. There are other things we can do. Which we'll talk about later, but that would be. That would be one. One case. In perfectly correlate features. Perfectly correlated features are linear dependent then it's. Mm. Right, right, right, so if we have, this is where it's harder for me to draw, but if we had like X1 and X2, we're trying to do regre linear regression, now, we're fitting a plane. In this, in this space, but if all of our X1, X2, if all of our data points have this perfect correlation between X1 and X2, this is the same thing as saying um all of the data points lie on a line. So all the data points sit on a line, but they're in a 2D space. It's the same sort of thing, right? Now there are infinite number of planes that can perfectly fit the line. Yeah, So it's to say that, At least N +1 points would be required, and Other things like you need the data to span the space that it lives in. Yeah. Probably in machine learning, I would say we just hope for the best. We just hope for these, that these situations don't happen. Yeah. and the daughter. Exactly, right, yes, so absolute perfect correlation probably never happens. Like 0.99 maybe, but, or 0.9 something, but perfect, 1.0 correlation, yeah. Probably not. We will talk about situations in the course, where the number of dimensions is greater than the number of data points. Because this, believe it or not, this does sometimes happen in machine learning. Um, some people out there are crazy enough to have data where, where the dimensionality of the points is much larger than the number of points that you have. You can't just apply this straight linear regression, but we will see ways that this can be done. OK. I think it's now Alonso come close but it's good, I think it's better. 1000 features per word. Hm. The number of features that a LLM would have in its, Hm I don't know Uh, I, I don't know. First reason I don't know how to answer is, uh, LLM input is, is kind of more of a sequence than just a, a flat data point. And then, well, there's, LLMs are also trained on quite a lot of data, like the whole internet or whatever, so they're, I don't know how many. Maybe it isn't I don't know whether the dimensionality is greater than that. The number of data points, but interesting questions. Um, OK. Alright. So, yep, then they showed this picture, we already saw that, we know that we can, we could calculate that equation and get an answer for our model parameters, and then we have the model parameters, and we're done. Alright, so, The I guess the, the main important little bit of foundational stuff that I wanna talk about today is this thing about maximum likelihood. OK, so. The way that we just talked about linear regression was kind of done without any, Without very little mention of statistics or probability, OK, but it turns out that you can understand what we just saw. Um, and fit it in a statistical probabilistic framework. This is very useful for us, OK, because we want, in machine learning, we're very often dealing with situations where there's, Where there's uncertainty everywhere, there's uncertainty in the, in the data, there's uncertainty in the model, there's, we did have the little bit of noise there, which is gonna turn out to be useful. But basically, um, it's good to be able to have some kind of statistical framework to work with in this course. And, um, we will talk about some Bayesian stuff later on in the course, which is different, but, The majority of the time, maximum likelihood gives us a nice foundation to work with. Alright. Um, so, we'll have a little look at what they say in the book about this, but, but it's kind of long-winded and detailed. So if you get lost. You really only need to understand these and accept these two points here, um, to get you by. For maximum likelihood. OK, well I want you to understand what it is, but once you've seen that, um, The key points that we're gonna see is that, Well, firstly, that we have this thing called the likelihood function. And if we maximise the likelihood function, that's a sensible thing to do to train ML models. That's what we wanna believe, OK? Um, because it's true Um, and. Then, if we're happy that maximising the likelihood is a good thing to do, It turns out that immediately we can see that. The way we just described fitting a linear regression model fits into that framework. As long as you have the little bit of additive noise, and as long as you assume it's Gaussian or normal. Then minimising the squared error loss is equivalent to maximising the likelihood function, or the log likelihood function because logs are convenient for a couple of reasons. OK, those two points make sense. Intuition. All right. Ah yes, I know you asked a question about this in ahead of time, which I didn't, ah, I didn't answer yet, sorry about that. We will get to it. Or Kai will just do it for me like. Maybe he has there. um OK. Thanks, good. Alright, so what does this, what does this likelihood function thing look like? It's, it looks like this. OK? The likelihood function says that I have my model parameters, and what I wanna do is find the parameters that maximise this thing. So this is the probability of Y given X and theta. OK, where X is the training data. Y is the true outputs for those, for those points in X and theta are our model parameters. OK. And roughly speaking, You know, if you have some. Probability density function that would be modelling the P of Y given X and theta. You would like to choose, you can't do anything about Y and X, they're given to you, but what you would like to do is find the theta values that maximise the probability of the Y's that you observed, given. The X's that you observed. Yes, So it's, it's a bit more complicated than. Um, it's a bit more complicated than just doing density estimation because we have an input and an output. But, but maximising the likelihood is just more, is just the same idea, really. OK, so if we had a, if we had a, we are tossing a coin or something like that, and we observe some values, then, um, what kind of distribution would be best to capture the outcomes that we've observed. So I can just have, if it's a, a coin toss distribution, it's just probability of heads and probability of tails, and I can vary the, The um The value of that parameter, that's my model, well, if you wanna capture the data well, you would probably set that model to reflect the frequencies that you saw, right? So if you had a biassed coin, you would end up with, I don't know, probability of heads is 0.7 or something like that. Um, if that's, if you use the data to do that, then your P of whatever it is, would be higher than if you chose probability of heads equals 0.1, when you actually observed a lot of heads, right, so. The general idea that we should be maximising this thing. Um, OK, the, the noise. OK, so the, the noise that we assume is this, just this simple additive Gaussian noise, and the, yeah, the noise terms are all independent of each other. So when you see epsilon, um, it probably means we have a Gaussian or normal distribution, which means zero, and some variance. Which Maybe we need to estimate that, or maybe it will come out for us, we'll, we'll see. Alright, so, um, OK, so the noise is independent and we also assume that the training points are independent. Um, is that, I don't know, some, sometimes people get nervous about that assumption in machine learning, and, and maybe they have good reasons, but, but we have to start somewhere, and this is the simplest thing, right? So the simplest thing is to assume that if I give you a set of data to fit your model, um, from. Then the points are independent of each other. Yeah, there's nothing funny about the, the way that I collected them, the order that I collected them, or or anything like that. Um, And so, if that's true, then it means we can write this as a big product. Overall the data points. And, so then we have this guy, and then this, well, it's this Gaussian, um, distribution with, Noise variants, and the mean is our linear regression model. Alright, so that theta transpose XI is the. Um, is the linear regression model. So then if you. If you write out the PDF for a Gaussian distribution, then this becomes this. Um And then, well, for at least for numerical reasons. We go for the log of this thing rather than. Rather than this thing itself, OK, because all of these little, all of these probability values, or many of them are very likely to be less than, less than 1, and some of them will be very small. Like, they're positive, because it's a PDF, but they're above 0. So you have a, you, you have this product of many numbers that are really small. And so that product is really, really small, um, so let's turn it into a log instead, and now you have a sum instead of a product, um. And that's fine because if you maximise the log, you'll maximise the likelihood itself. Um, so then they just kind of write that out, um, do a little bit of algebra. What they're trying to do here is figure out what they need to do, um. Well, not even that, I mean, they're, they're, they would like to actually solve the problem, but what they're really doing is just showing you that if you do this, you end up with this expression. That little, oh, sorry. That's terrible, um. OK. So you end up with that. And that is the squared error. So that's the thing we were already minimising. Um So So that's fine, right, so 0.2 is correct. Good. Questions? So, I would not, I would not ask you ah, in an exam, something like prove that, maximising the log likelihood for a linear regression model is equivalent to minimising a sum of squared error. I would not ask you to, I don't know, sit at home and memorise all of these, these equations and then regurgitate it, no. But I do, I would hope that you can follow. The, what you're seeing in front of you there, because I might ask you about one of these equations, or the steps, I would give them to you in the exam question. Cos it's not about memorization, but I would hope that people understand what. What's going on here, OK? All right. Mm, OK, we're not doing too badly, but, so let's just do this thing about categorical variables, and then we can take a break. This is a bit of an odd, uh bit of a, an aside topic here anyway. OK, so, um, So what we've just been talking about, uh, by default, we're always kind of assuming that our X variables are continuous real valued numbers. But they're not always continuous real value numbers in a lot of datasets, um, and so we need to have ways of handling other types of data, and this is a very common one where we might have data that's categorical. OK. So the way to, well, one approach, which has sort of become standard, really, because of deep neural networks. Um, Ah, there's not one way that you could do this, but, but probably the standard way of representing categorical variables is to do this one hot encoding type of thing. Alright, so you can have, um, if you had two variables, A and B, you could create a dummy variable, so your data is full of A's and B's in one of the input columns. You can turn that into 0 or 1. Right. Um, man, then you could, yeah, they effectively, it's like having two models, sort of, yep. Um, what if you have more than two categories, so A, B, C, D, one hot encoding says that we, Transform these categorical variables into big binary vectors. Well, it's not that big cause it's only 4, alright, but you, you get the picture, so we have a 4 dimensional vector now where, Um, we have 0s and 1s, but we will only have 11 for any of the data points, right? Because if this data point belongs to category A, then we have a 1 and then we have 0s everywhere else. Alright, and if you do, if you, if, hence the name, one hot encoding, right? So if you are trying to encode all of the letters of the alphabet, now you have a 26 dimensional binary vector, so your data is looking big, lots of columns, but on any one row, there's only 11, and all the rest are zeros. So it's kind of, it also looks very sparse. OK. I wonder how. Um, the linear regression, like the assumption for the matrix inversion handles data like this. If you don't have a lot of it, and that's the only data you have, now you have a, a, Unusual kind of linear regression problem where, where the inputs are all binary. Which is, yeah, a little bit strange. But anyway, that's how, that's how one hot encoding works, and it's used everywhere in ML including deep neural nets, so we'll talk about it later on. Um, let's have a 10 minute break. Go grab a coffee, whatever, um, we'll start again at 3. OK, Um, hm. Still a couple of strange echo poll errors, that's interesting. Um, we'll start this in a second. Numbers on the board. Um, but let's go back to the notes. And let's do a bit more first, otherwise you can't answer the questions, um. Alright, so, so we've talked about, we've only talked about linear regression so far. That's OK, I think, um. Next thing we wanna talk about is logistic regression. Don't be fooled by the name. This is not a regression, a model that does regression, it's a classifier. OK. So, logistic regression is linear regression, where we add a function to squash the output, so that the output would lie in the range 0 to 1. Like this picture kind of tries to show you. OK, so if we had two dimensional, Input X1 and X2, and we are trying to predict why. Uh, I'm sorry. Isn't it good if I put it up on the screen, there we go, thank you. Sorry about that. OK, so logistic regression is, is a classifier. Where we're trying to predict the output, which would be the, the Y axis here, the height. We have X1 and X2 as our inputs. But it's, we're trying to do binary classification. So the thing we're trying to predict is the probability that Y equals, One, say, given. Some test input X star. And the binary classification problems, so you can think about two classes, and here we've represented them as -1 and 1. But sometimes we might talk about 0 and 1. It doesn't matter too much, it's usually just, For some mathematical convenience. OK, but so we have two classes, and we're trying to build a model that can output the probability that Y equals 1. And that's gonna be 1 minus the probability that Y equals -1, um, and we would want these probability values to be between 0 and 1, right? Otherwise, they're not very sensible probability values. So the excuse me, so the idea is to create some, Model which outputs something in the range 0 to 1. And we can do that with linear regression if we add a squashing function, a sigmoidal function. In particular, this one. OK, so H Z equals EZ over 1 + E Z. Um, that function looks like that. So if we make Z. The output of the linear regression model. Then the this, this logistic regression model would output something like this green surface here. Alright, and you've got this. You've got this. Plane that they've drawn here, slicing through the surface, that's happening at 0.5, which is, you know, that's obviously, Without any other assumptions or or anything else. You might think, OK, if the probability that Y equals 1 is greater than 0.5, then probably I'm gonna end up predicting 1, if I'm, if I have to make an actual prediction about the class. Alright. OK. And now I've lost my preview, I have to press a couple of buttons. So we'll have a little look through the maths, again, not worrying too much, but um understanding what's going on here. What's going on here is really just showing you how you can fit this logistic regression model into the maximum likelihood framework that we were just talking about. Alright, and what is that, it sounds kind of grand, fitting it into the maximum likelihood framework or whatever, all it really means is, um, I can write down the likelihood function for this model in a way that makes sense, and then hopefully, I can optimise it. So that means I can maximise my likelihood, my log likelihood, and get a decent model. That's, that's all I really need out of, out of the maximum likelihood, ah framework. OK, so. Um This is, but I don't think we need to worry too much about that example. You can, things I skip over, you can read, you know, in your own time if you want, but they're not super important. Um, so the idea is that we have this model, and we're calling it G. G of X is a sort of generic label for a kind of model in the book. Um, so that Y axis there, G of X. OK, so that's gonna be our model. Maybe I'll just leave that there for a second. Um, and we're trying to model with G of X the probability that Y equals 1. Given some input X. And then the laws of probability tell us that. OK. Um, we're also gonna wanna talk about multi-class classification. And in that case, this is not enough, we would need to do instead something like 3.27. So we need a whole bunch of probability of Y equals 2 up to Y equals m. And Ah, we would want all of those to sum up to equal one, because they're meant to be sensible probability values, and we could model them with some, some G of X, which has got G1, G2, up to GM, whatever. You'll see how we do that in a second. And the way we're gonna do it here is kind of the neural network way. It's not the only way of doing things, but it's, I guess, standard now in machine learning. Um Yes, OK. So the logistic regression model, um, they have this Z here. So what you're, what we we would be doing would be replacing Z with our linear regression model. And then using that squashing function to turn it into our output. OK, so the squashing function itself is just a, a function. So the parameters of the model are still just the, the theta values, right, theta 0 through to theta P. Alright. OK, it's not very important. Alright, well then, so OK, what about this maximum likelihood thing? Same deal as before, we want the model parameters that maximise the likelihood, Um, where it looks exactly the same as it did before, but this time, Um, we have something like this for the binary classification problem. OK, so we're gonna have, we have our, we have our Model G that is gonna produce a probability value for us, and a prediction, an estimate. So that will be G of XI. Uh, and theatre, so, It's either Y equals 1 or it's Y equals -1. And depending on that, then it's either G or 1 minus G, we take the logs as before. Um, so our cost function is still just this negative log likelihood, but now it looks like this. OK, just translating, just bringing what we have in 3.31 down into here. Then our um, Our cost function looks like that now. Um, this thing is called cross-entropy loss. So it's not mean spread error anymore. Um, but this is, uh, a loss function that makes sense for classification when we're thinking about maximum likelihood. Um, and we'll use it for other models as well, not just logistic regression, OK, um. You can look through this later if you want to, but they do a little bit of algebra, rewriting this, um, cost function where we substitute in the, we, we bring in the sigmoidal function. OK, and so you end up with this problem as the one you want to solve, to train your model. You wanna minimise um this thing with respect to the model parameters. Alright, but yes. The, it's a little bit more involved than doing linear regression, because like they say here, for logistic regression, there's no closed form solution. So I can't just write down an equation that will tell you what the optimal feeder hat should be for some data set. Alright, instead, we need, uh, we need a, an iterative numerical optimisation algorithm. We're gonna talk a whole lot about those in this course, um, mainly gradient descent. And you could use gradient descent to train a model like this, but for, so for now we'll just, Except that there are solvers available that can do this for us and give us, uh, numerically give us a reasonable value for feeder hat. OK. Much more about optimisation coming in future weeks. Um, Alright. Yes. Back over to the notes. Cos they're a little bit briefer, um, Yes, so we're gonna talk about models in the course that can do probabilistic prediction. And give us probabilities, and then we're gonna talk about others that don't, alright? And there are pros and cons with, on either side, um, but one thing that's good about probabilistic predictors is that they, they kind of tell you something about the uncertainty of your prediction. Right, so if you're. If your model is telling you with probability 0.95, that this thing really does belong to this class. That, you know, That this snake is not venomous and actually very friendly, then you might like to to cuddle the snake. Alright, but if the if the classifier is telling you with 0.52, That this snake is harmless, I suggest you don't cuddle the snake. Because what the classifier is telling you is that it's very uncertain, actually. 0.5 is maximally uncertain. So You probably should think about maybe even having a, ah, a final output, which says, I don't know. That's OK. In fact, you can even build it into a classifier if you want to, but, But for now, it's just, you know, you could have a, you, you could intuitively do this and decide that, If my output is not strong enough towards the probabilities being 0 and 1, then a good output would be, I don't know. I think so, um. But yes, often we want to output a hard decisions, so we need a rule. OK? And yes, you might have a threshold, R equals 0.5, that would be um, Saying OK, if, if it's outputting greater than 0.5 is the probability, then, and you force me to make a choice, I'm gonna predict for the output of 1, less, I'll predict the output of zero. Alright. So, so the logistic regression model gives us this. Surface, right, it gives us this output, which is this real valued number between 0 and 1, but, you have to impose a threshold out on top of that to get a decision. OK, so logistic regression creates a linear decision boundary. Because you can see that in this, in this um figure, right, so at, where G of X equals 0.5, that's the place where, Your prediction will change from one to the other. So if we look top-down on this, we have a linear boundary between our classes. Alright? Not very much at all like our nearest neighbour. Remember, our nearest neighbour, or even decision trees, we could have these very strange, non-linear shapes, where we're splitting the classes all over the place, um, logistic regression, linear decision boundary. In multi-dimensional, Um, space, this is, well I probably should say hyperplane. Cause it's not, it's only a line in 2D, right, so in general, the decision boundaries are hyperplane. Alright. Um, OK. We already saw the cross-entropy loss, um, logistic regression with more than two classes. OK. So, for example, on the music dataset, if you want to do classification here, you have 3 classes, so you need your model to create 3 decision boundaries, um, and 3 regions for the class. OK, so for this we need to slightly, um, increase the complexity of our model and have this um, This soft max function. Let's go down. I think that's OK. We already talked about all this. OK, so if you have more than 2 classes, then the way that we do it here is to represent, um, To represent the classes in this one hot encoding style. And say that I will have an output for every single class in my data. So if it's a 10, if it's a 3 class problem, we need 3 outputs. 10 classes, 10 outputs, whatever. And they would be all of these Z's here. OK, so it's like, it's the logistic regression model, but we haven't done the squashing function yet. That's the Z. Ah, this, this sometimes gets the name, special name logit. Which is just like, it's the linear regression model. Before we've squashed it. OK. So, for multi-class, you would have a bunch of these. Um, and now, well, we have these M. real valued numbers, the Z1 to ZM, but we want to, we want to squash them so that they're all between 0 and 1, and we need them to add up to equal 1. For every time the model predicts, we want those probabilities to sum to 1. People understand why. Like it kind of doesn't make any sense otherwise, right? It's sort of like the model should be. I guess you could say it's an assumption of the model that any data you give it belongs to one of the classes. You can't, there are no other options, there's no cla extra class I didn't tell you about. OK, so if there are only 3 classes, then your model should output 3 numbers that always sum to 1. Because it's, it's supposed to be. Thanks, Bill. Um You know, you want it to be consistent with the laws of probability. Um, so to do that, we need, Instead of the just simple logistic. Um, squashing function, we use this soft max function. So soft max looks like this. OK, but If you look closely at this, what you'll see, hopefully, is that all that's going on here is just E to the Z1, E Z 2, etc. divided by the sum of all of them. Uh-huh. So the divided by the sum of all of them bit. Guarantees that we get the, the normalisation. Alright, so the output vector always sums to 1, and each element is always greater than 0. So we're sort of combining all the outputs together in a normalisation plus a squashing function. So that just turns into that in vector notation. And You know, the end of, if you wanted to write out the individual G, what it looks like, it will still look like this E over. Not E over 1 plus E, it'll be E over the sum of those. Alright. Cool. I think that's OK. Questions? Alright. I think we can I think we can do this now. Uh Um. I hope you can read that. Ooh, look at that, it's got colours and everything, I didn't realise. um. So this is actually one of the multiple choice questions from last year's final exam. It's pretty easy because we just covered it, maybe, but, um, just to show you an example. So if GXI, And theta is the output of a logistic regression model at the decision boundary, what is the output of this model? If you're doing participation, now is your time to participate. Is it bad, like showing you this biases you towards choosing A because everyone else chose A? Don't be like them. Be different. Oh, maybe, maybe being different's not a good idea, I don't know. OK. Had enough? I'll just give you like 5 more seconds to change your mind here or not. There we go. Very good, that's not a very hard ah. Not a very hard MCQ I suppose. But hey, at the end of semester, you've learnt a lot of stuff. Maybe it's a bit more difficult. Um, let's do the next one now I think, as well. Now this is not a, I've put this in Echo poll as a question where you can just give a short answer. So type something in, but I wanted to just show you something, really, um, er, so your, your answer isn't terribly important here, but put something in. There we go, people are putting things in. Um, so this is also an exam question, um, from, um, last year. And I give, gave the students a picture of linear regression, 1D dataset, um, the equation exactly as the equation is in the textbook and the notes. Alright, and then here's a picture, but this picture is not out of the notes, but this is just a graph, and it shows some stuff. OK. And now there were some marks and questions. Label the axes, draw, draw arrows and annotate, state the value of n. It's a bit hard for me to fit. If I shrink it, then people can't read it. So well, unfortunately, maybe you can read it on your. On your screen easier than I can. So just have a think about your answers maybe for a for a minute. I mean this is the real deal folks, this is the final exam. High stakes, marks are being handed out for these things. Um By the, well, I'll, I will say much more about the exam later, but the amount of marks that something is worth here is meant to be just, mostly it's meant to reflect the amount of time it might take you to come up with the answer or write down the answer. Let's not worry too much about what 2 and 4 means. Um, OK, so. So many people are answering for C, because that's what I suggested for the part C of the question. Maybe N equals 21, it looks like. Um, if you're participating, just chuck something in there, cos I wanna press the stop button. Mhm 54321. And Alright. And. There's a lot of answers. I'll look later and see if anybody put any swear words or anything, um. I Oh. And now, how messy is this? Kai will, will recall maybe this marking scheme from last year. OK, so this is the, this is the actual marking scheme from last year's final exam. It looks a bit messy, but it only has to make sense for me and the tutors. Um, label the axes in figure 3. That means you should put an X there and a Y there. others. Anybody unhappy with that? Anybody disagree? Like, it's like, we're using this notation, let's go. Right? So it's not why hat, cos why hat's the prediction. That's Y and that's X. OK, they're the, they're the axes labels. Probably one mark for each, I think. Um, draw arrows and annotate to show some things. XI. So XI would be a point just here, for example. Right, Xi is one of the training points, and it is the X value of the training point. So it's an, it should be a, you, you should've drawn a dot or or those people from the past, should've drawn a dot somewhere on the x axis. That's it, that's Xi. OK. What about YI? So YI would be. Sorry about this, but you have to follow this big red arrow up to here. So YI is the Y coordinate of that data point there, and Xi is the X coordinate of that data point. Yes. Any data point is totally fine, but choose one of them, right? And it has to be one of the training points. And you can see them all there. Yep. Choose the same notation for uh as point of xi which is the the input where you're taking the prediction. So the question is about the test data, so it, for the test data, we have the star as well. So if you only had one test point, you could say X. If you had several of them, you'd have to go X I. report But the question hasn't given you. Probably that it would be a bit mean of me to ask a question like this, and mention test without giving you, cos I haven't given you the test notation, but I've given you every bit of notation that you need in this equation. Alright, um, Y hat, Xi and theta. That's the prediction of the model at XI. So that will be that red cross there. If I'm just going with my same data point, yeah. Everybody OK with that? And The 4th bit, why hat of Xi and theta. You got a point where. Anything like that Oh yes, you're right, yes, that, that's not correct. That should be. The Y hat is the actual Y value. It is the Y value, yes, yes. Mm And This one, why hat of this stuff minus YI, this is the black line. OK. I hope we picked that one up last year, Kai, did we, like for, for the third part there, that one there. The third part, it's actually the Y coordinate, not the cross. Yeah, it's. Yeah, yeah, I think we did pick this up last year. Let's just say we did, right? We wouldn't want anybody to have failed machine learning, because of that. Now, I'm pretty sure we'd picked that up. Um, the fourth part is the black line, right, the difference between the prediction, The why prediction and the true value of why. And the value of N is 21. As people, many of you realise, if you count the number of points in the diagram, it tells you how many data points you have. OK. How's that? Does this make people more scared of the final exam, or less, I hope it's less. I don't wanna, I figure it. I figure talking about these exam questions actually is a nice thing, right, it's a helpful thing. Um, so I thought I'd put a couple of those in there today. All right, um. Mm mm mm mm mm. Um That's it. Nothing else Nothing else for the poll, but we haven't finished the lecture yet, don't, don't walk out. Um OK. So let's talk about polynomial regression. The last thing we need to talk about today, and there's not a lot more to say, really, um, and maybe we'll mention this thing, regularisation here, which is something that we'll talk about in a lot more detail, um, in future weeks, OK, so don't get too stressed if you lose a little bit what we're going on about with regularisation. Alright. Um, OK, so. So, if people have come across linear regression somewhere in, in your past, then I think there's a fair chance you might also have come across some kind of polynomial regression, right? So this is classic, mathematical function fitting, where, You know, you want to fit a function to your data, but you know it's not linear. You know the relationship's not linear between X and Y. Maybe you have reason to believe it's quadratic, or cubic or something, so you choose a model like that, um, and then you, you wanna do the same type of thing, you wanna fit your model to the data. Alright? So, that's um. Something that people do, and, and there's pros and cons, um, OK, so if we take a model, where's an equation, there's an equation. Right, so, here's, here's what polynomial regression looks like, in one, Uh, in one dimension. Because we have theta 0, theta 1 X1, but now we have theta 2 times X2, theta 3 times X cubed, and we go on and on. Um, well, every, uh, now we can kind of have a decision to make about what order polynomial you would like to use. And it's kind of obvious that if you choose a higher order polynomial, You're gonna have more parameters to fit. Right. And Maybe also higher order polynomials, have more flexibility, have more power. I can model, A wider variety of functions or data, um, if I choose a higher order polynomial, right, but it means there's gonna be more parameters in my model to fit. Ah, it means other things as well. Um, so, There's a slightly odd thing about the way they do talk about polynomial regression in this book, in my opinion, but it's, I, I, I understand why they do it, um, so I just think I would, I would note it for you here, OK, so, Um, if I was if I was talking to somebody about polynomial regression, in my head I'm, I'm automatically thinking that this is a nonlinear model. I mean, it can, it's like a weird curve, right? You can do, can do groovy, non-linear things. Um, because it has all these, it has terms with like X2, X cubed, and so on. Um. But, in the book, they kind of say, you know, a different view of this is to say, If you had, Um Gone off and calculated all the powers of X before you started. Which you could do, just using the input data. So you went away and calculated X2, then called it a new feature, X cubed, called it a new feature. Now you, your, your input data would just like, look like X1, X2, X3, not these powers, and it would be kind of a linear model in those terms. So what you've done is changed. Um Applied a nonlinear transformation to your input. So that you could, after that, you could, Just use a linear model and and act as if you have a linear model. It's sort of just a different way of um. Thinking, I think. OK, um, it's gonna be useful later on, because there are other machine learning techniques that, that do a lot with this idea. OK, so kernel methods and support vector machines are what I'm thinking of here, OK? Um, but, so it's maybe just worth noting for now that that's a thing that they have in this book. OK, so here's, here's them actually doing, doing those transformations to the data, right, like, 1st, 1st column is just all the, the theta naught um offset values to correspond to that, and then it's like X and X 2 and X cubed or whatever, um. And then you can do, do some stuff, right? So the linear regression model might be like that for this data, but with X2. You can get a polynomial, quadratic curve, and you can go up to 10 if you want, and get some kind of interesting looking non-linear function, ah, which you can call linear regression. Um, but it's, yeah, it does that kind of thing, OK? Notice it dramatically goes down at the end, which is sort of weird, right? Bit, bit crazy, um. Ah, there's something, did I miss it? Did I miss it? OK, so if you want to do polynomial regression. Um Ah yes, that's the other reason why they talk about it in these terms. OK, because if you, if you approach polynomial regression by first, firstly doing that transformation. And then you say after that, my model is just linear regression, right? So that means I can also train the model just as easily as I can train linear regression. OK, and that, that is indeed the truth. OK, so that expression we had back there, did I put it in the notes, I'm not sure. I didn't put it in the notes, but the closed form expression that we had for, um, for training linear regression, back at the start, worth, Worth checking, I think. This one Do we have it in the, yeah. Alright, so that's how you train a linear regression model, or that's how you figure out what the parameters should be. You can do exactly the same thing with polynomial regression. So it's interesting that the, the, the kind of training problem for polynomial regression is not harder, really, than just doing linear regression. You might think it is, but no. It's kind of, kind of interesting. Um, Very good And Yeah, so the last thing we wanna say here is really just, I guess that, that curve, those curves sort of open the, Open the door to talking about things like model complexity and overfitting and underfitting and this kind of stuff, ah whoa. There we go, right. So Definitely, I could tell you that. The linear out of these three models, the blue one would have the highest error. And then the red one, and then the green one. Um If you didn't believe me, I would say, well, the, the proof is just that I can make, um, the green one can do everything the blue one can do, because the green one is just the the blue, the green one can become the blue one if you just get rid of all those terms. And set all those model parameters to zero, right? So it's definitely true that you fit the data better and better, but what you don't know is what happens when I get some test data. Right, because if I had a, if I had a test input that was here, Um, you would kind of expect that the distance for that test input might be up here somewhere, but the green model is predicting something like -3 million or something for the distance, which is not a very sensible prediction for the distance the car needs to stop if it's travelling at that speed, right? So, the model has become complex, but complex models is not necessarily a good thing. OK, we end up with eccentric models that overfit the data, and then they would perform worse on test data than these simple models. So we're gonna spend a lot of time talking about that stuff in the course, um, and it's kind of a main, um, a huge challenge and question in machine learning is, how do we control this model complexity? We need models that are complex enough to do, Interesting real-world problems, but not too complex, that when we train them, they do something strange, overfit the training data, and perform terribly on test data. OK, so one way of controlling the model complexity is, is what we call regularisation. And I'll just show you one equation. OK, so there's a certain type of regularisation which people use for linear regression, and for other models as well, but it's this one, it's called L2 regularisation, and it means you add this term. To the, to the cost function, the optimisation problem, and this term, because we're minimising this term penalises large parameters. OK, it encourages small parameters because it penalises large ones, where lambda is some constant that you have to choose. OK, so, we'll talk more about regularisation later, but that was just a little bit of a, a, a starter for that. Alright, folks, enjoy the rest of your week. I'll see you next time. time.

SPEAKER 1
1st century doing something mean to it. Anybody you ever seen do it. One point game The How was Austin. I was lost in translation with a whole nation. They say I was the Obama nation of Obama's nation. We always say Father Time is undefeated. Kobe Bryant too By Kobe Bryant. You just saw. and that's.
